>> Mike: Next, let's get linting
working across our project.
So the current state of the world
is we have this ESLint config,
but it is within the UI package.
We haven't touched this since
we moved things around and
if we went into the ui, lint still works.
Doesn't still work?
Interesting, I need to add my
vite config to my TS config here.
You know what?
This will get shaken out
as we make progress here.
I can explain what's going on though.
Our current setup,
this has to do with TypeScript and
linting more than monorepos.
But what we have going on here is
we're saying I'm using eslint and
I have some type aware linting rules.
These are linting rules that
are alerting the developer
to problems that detection
of those problems,
involves using type information itself,
right?
And the way you set this up is you
have to enable the project service and
you have to point to a tsconfig file or
tsconfig root directory.
Right?
Now that's going to be this file here.
Let's see, we've got
the postcss config stuff?
Kind of expected that we would
not see these files here.
Maybe.
You know what?
We're going to keep pushing forward and
let's see if this still shakes
out when we move things around.
But I'll tell you that the thing
I immediately look for
here is based on these error messages,
if you've left this file out,
if it's not being type checked,
it's not part of your config.
You either have to do something like this,
right?
And we could put a bunch of
things in here, like, Right, you
could build up an array and say these are
just things that won't get linted for me.
Or you have to be referring
to a TypeScript project that
includes type checking on those files.
Otherwise TypeScript does not know or
ESLint doesn't know what to do with them
because it's ultimately producing kind of
like the AST that represents
the code that will be executed and
an equivalent data structure that
represents the types on that code.
If there's no types, it can't do its job.
Let's do some refactoring and
see if we end up fixing this
as part of that process.
First, let's hoist some of our
dependencies up to the workspace
level that relate to linting.
What's that going to be?
Certainly typescript eslint
is going to be one of them.
We'll have eslint.
There it is.
We'll grab that too.
I think that might be it.
Just these two.
Maybe TypeScript itself.
We'll grab that.
These three lines and
we're going to bring those up to our
root level package JSON
as dev dependencies.
Save.
We touched a package JSON.
We must pnpmi.
Did I save it?
Yep, great.
Okay, now we should be able to do.
Sorry.
We need to move the lint config up to
the root of our project.
So we're gonna move that up.
And whenever I do this,
I think we might be in good shape here.
But I do want to check
that paths look correct.
Interesting.
It can't find this module.
Let me try restarting my language
server just to see if that's real.
You know what?
That's legit.
I think we forgot to bring that over.
Let's check our UI package JSON.
There it is.
Helpful tooling.
Making sure that we do all
the things we need to do, pnpmi.
Great.
Looks like that was successful and
goes away.
Fantastic.
I want to change this from
dir name to process CWD and
we need types node for that to work.
So let's install that at the workspace
level because for sure the ESLINT config
is being evaluated at in a node context.
This is interesting.
Save, check in package.json,
make sure everything looks right.
Seems good.
No, it didn't add the types node.
That's really strange.
Let's try something else.
We can grab it and bring it in and
then just run the install process.
Okay, something about, I guess looking up
with the latest version of @types/node,
it's a little weird, but.
So now we've got types/node.
We go back to this file.
There we go.
We've got process current
working directory and
because this is a script that we should
be running at the workspace level,
this will always be
the root of the project.
Here's pnpm lint, all right.
We got some errors.
This represents us having some
legitimate things that we need to catch.
So we can start with first,
this invalid template literal thing.
Restrict template literal expressions.
That's what it's called.
We're going to go down into rules.
Here it is.
I already had that in there.
Well, let's look at
a couple other of these.
This to me screams
an import's not resolving.
And there it is.
Now, for the first time,
we're catching that some of
these imports aren't resolving.
The reason why this wasn't being
detected before is we've been
doing a lot of PNPM builds,
which, remember.
Just looks at the source folder.
And this is why it's useful
to have that check command so
that you're also type
checking against your tests.
But this just needs to be like.
See all the red over here?
And it's just going to go away once we
resolve this svelte or seeds and models.
Great.
So there's that file we can run again.
Oops.
And we should end up with
just two errors left.
These two tailwind config.
So the svelte config,
the tailwind config and the vite config.
One more.
That should be fine.
What do we got here?
Okay, so now I'm seeing a role,
just verbalizing my debugging steps here.
I know I have a role in my tsconfig.
Sorry, in my eslint configuration
that allows numbers.
We ran lint at the beginning of
the project and it for sure passed.
We all saw that.
So that tells me I need
to look at paths here.
Look relative to the root of the project,
we're looking for source and tests.
So here we go.
We're going to add to both of these places
packages anything source and tests.
And you should see some
of those things allowed.
There we go.
So now we're down to a set of errors
that all are similar in nature.
And they're saying there's
a parsing error here.
I'm not included in a tsconfig or
something like that.
So two places this could happen.
One is a TS config is not covering
these things, but another would be
just making sure that you have some
representation of these files here.
So at a high level,
I want you to think about this as
either the tsconfig contained,
the tsconfig referred to files
which are neither ignored nor
described in terms of how
they can be linted, or
your linting files that your
tsconfig doesn't cover.
So let's see what we can do
about that, I think.
Sorry, I'm just going to check
my notes real quick here.
Packages ui.
All right, let's just double
check the tsconfig one more time.
UI tsconfig, there it is.
Okay, and, Try that, now,
that shouldn't matter.
This can go away because this
file is not present anymore.
But there's the svelte config,
there's the vite config.
What if we add these
to our root TS config?
That would be the other
thing to experiment with.
So this would be saying packages.
Or we could do that and
let's see if this happens.
If this works, what that tells me is
eslint's only looking at that root
TS config, and it's not sort of
cascading into each project there.
It works.
So basically, just through debugging this,
I think we can make an assumption.
Now, although the TypeScript
compiler is fine with
the include array being added onto,
if you will,
in the UI package, it's still
going to be including source and
test because of what it's
extending from eslint.
It appears does not work that way.
And we're having to say in our config when
we're saying, I'm pointing to this folder,
that's where you can find the tsconfig
that's going to be used for linting.
That's where it wants to be able to find
everything that is being asked to lint,
and linting passes.
Now, just to convince ourselves that it's
actually working, we can have a lint error
of some sort and let's make sure
that it ends up being picked up.
Like, what would we do?
We could do this.
So that should be a lint error.
No confusing, void expression save.
And we see the errors pop up.
Great.
Now we have eslint working
across our workspace.
And this is the advisable way to do it,
by the way,
like having one lint task that works
everywhere, it's just going to be
a lot more efficient than having linting
happen in each monorepo package.
If you look at what the lint team
says in their documentation,
once you start getting to Even
something like 10 packages,
especially if the linting
is happening in parallel,
you don't want to have an ESLint
file in each package at that point.
It's just a lot for it to parse and just
has to do with the way it's implemented.
But this scales up much better having
one eslint MTS at your root and
have this be the central
place where all of your.
Where everything's happening.
And of course you get the added
benefit of saying, well,
just like we want one place for
TypeScript compiler strictness settings,
we want one place to look where we
can state across the entire monorepo.
Here are the rules.
And yes, you might have deviation between
different packages, where let's say you're
incrementally tightening things up,
like applying a new rule and
getting everything fixed in one package
at a time and rolling that out.
Well, you can still do that in this file.
You can have as many of
these objects as you want.
And this would be another great place
to have per package configuration.
But at least there's one place to look and
you're not opening up a dozen files to
figure out what the heck is going on.
Next up,
let's get that jump to definition working.
Just to refresh what this
problem is in any place where.
Yeah, this will work in any place
where we're importing something from
either the UI or the server package and
we're importing from seeds models.
If we command click, we end up
going to these declaration files.
There's a very simple fix for this,
and that is in your tsconfig build,
you want not just declaration true but
declaration map true.
Think of these as the source maps for
declaration files.
So this one's super easy.
If we build across the whole project,
it'll result in a new build output.
Sorry, I'm in the UI folder running
the build command in the UI package only.
I'm gonna get out of here and
I wanna run build across the whole
monorepo at which point there.
That's what I was looking for.
These declaration map files,
which you can see,
all right,
like here is the declaration file, and
this is the source that it comes from,
or the sources.
And so as a result, now if we go
back to that formatting ts and
command click,
we're now in TypeScript source, right?
So very important declaration map.
True.
There's really no downside to building
those anywhere you care
about declarations.
Any library should have these
declaration maps in place.
Even if it's in your Node Modules folder,
it's still valuable to be able to.
If we're here and we're going into svelte,
it's nice to be able to jump into
something that's more readable here.
In this case, we're benefiting from
source maps with JSDOC types, but
it's the original source code with
the comments, and it allows you to
spelunk into your dependencies
without having to walk back up and
be like, I'm in a dist folder.
Let me get into the original source code.
Yes.
>> Male: If you were publishing something
to NPM for that property,
would you then have to include
your TypeScript in the dist,
or would the jump to just
jump to the JavaScript code?
>> Mike: That's a good, good question.
When I publish TypeScript libraries,
I will typically leave my source
code in the library for that reason.
So, like when,
if I were to publish models, models,
you would see something that
looks exactly like this.
You'd see a dist folder,
and that's part of the tarball
that ends up going up to npm.
But I'll absolutely leave my source folder
in there, and I'll even leave the tests.
It's more text, but
there's still a lot of value in somebody
being able to go in and
understand exactly what's going on,
especially if you want to look into
a concept like creating a patch.
So all the popular JavaScript
package managers, NPM, Yarn,
and PNPM, they support this
concept of like a patch command,
which lets you really reach
into a Node Modules folder,
make a little adjustment, and
then you create a git diff effectively,
like a git patch that represents
that adjustment having been made.
And then when you install that
package again, your patch,
which is checked into git
along with your project,
that's applied if you've ever run into
a problem where some dependency has a bug.
I run into this all the time where
somebody has a very old way of
representing types they're using
in their ambient type information,
both the declare keyword and
the export keyword at one time.
The typescript compiler was okay
with that, and it is not anymore.
You can just go in and you can change
those files and you create a patch.
You don't have to fork the library and
publish it to NPM and then pull it down.
Still good to open a PR and to see if you
can help fix it for other people too.
That's just a good ecosystem
citizen thing to do.
But the idea that you can
make that adjustment and
check it in as a git patch, it's
pretty powerful and you do it once and
then it's persisted with your source code,
it's in git.
That's a good reason to include
the source code in your library.
If somebody ever needed to do that
with something I'd published,
well, they would have
the ingredients necessary.
They'd be able to go in there,
into their Node Modules folder and
npm, install from within that node
modules and use my build script to.
They could adjust the source code and
then they could run a build on
what is to them a dependency.
And then they'll get both the source
code changes and the dist and
they can check that in as sort of a patch
with their repo, which is pretty cool.
And in the monorepos world,
you can do that in a way where
that patch is applied for
any package in your monorepo that uses
the same version of that dependency.
So if you had to patch React or
you had to patch something else,
like you can do it once and
then everywhere it ends up being used.